Adding How To Guides for .NET for Apache Spark (#20778)
dotnet/docs: docs/spark/how-to-guides/connect-to-sql-server.md

---
title: Connect to SQL server locally from .NET for Apache Spark
description: Learn how to connect to an SQL server instance from your .NET for Apache Spark application.
ms.date: 09/24/2020
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.custom: mvc,how-to
---

# Connect to SQL server locally from .NET for Apache Spark

In this article, you learn how to connect to an SQL server instance from your [.NET for Apache Spark](https://github.com/dotnet/spark) application.

## Configure your SQL server to allow access from your .NET for Apache Spark application

1. Add a Login user and password choosing SQL server authentication to your SQL server instance.
2. Give that login user necessary permissions at the relevant database level as shown below:

    ![SQL server permissions](./media/connect-external-sources/SqlServerAuth.png)

3. Make sure the default port for SQL server 1433 is allowed through the firewall.
4. Open SQL configure manager to enable TCP/IP through the network configuration as shown below:

>     ![SQL server TCP/IP enable](./media/connect-external-sources/SqlServerTCPIP.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    ![SQL server TCP/IP enable](./media/connect-external-sources/SqlServerTCPIP.png)

```

---
title: Connect to SQL server locally from .NET for Apache Spark

> description: Learn how to connect to an SQL server instance from your .NET for Apache Spark application.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
description: Learn how to connect to a SQL Server instance from your .NET for Apache Spark application.
```

> ms.date: 09/24/2020

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
ms.date: 10/09/2020
```

ms.topic: conceptual
ms.custom: mvc,how-to
---

# Connect to SQL server locally from .NET for Apache Spark

> In this article, you learn how to connect to an SQL server instance from your [.NET for Apache Spark](https://github.com/dotnet/spark) application.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this article, you learn how to connect to a SQL server instance from your [.NET for Apache Spark](https://github.com/dotnet/spark) application.
```

Author: I think `an` is the correct usage in this case.

Reviewer 2: @Niharikadutta Re: a/an I'd say it out loud and go with what sounds better. For me, a SQL server instance sounds more natural than an SQL server instance.

I also made a minor tweak to point to docs instead of the repo.

> ## Configure SQL server to grant your application access

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Configure SQL Server to grant your application access
```

> ## Configure your SQL server to allow access from your .NET for Apache Spark application

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Configure SQL server to grant your application access
```

> 1. Add a Login user and password choosing SQL server authentication to your SQL server instance.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Add a login user and password choosing SQL Server authentication to your SQL Server instance.
```

2. Give that login user necessary permissions at the relevant database level as shown below:

>     ![SQL server permissions](./media/connect-external-sources/SqlServerAuth.png)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    ![SQL Server permissions](./media/connect-external-sources/SqlServerAuth.png)
```

> 3. Make sure the default port for SQL server 1433 is allowed through the firewall.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Make sure the default port for SQL Server `1433` is allowed through the firewall.
```

4. Open SQL configure manager to enable TCP/IP through the network configuration as shown below:

>     ![SQL server TCP/IP enable](./media/connect-external-sources/SqlServerTCPIP.png)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    ![SQL Server TCP/IP enable](./media/connect-external-sources/SqlServerTCPIP.png)
```

>     Also note the value of `Listen All` in above tab under `Protocol`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    Also note the value of **Listen All** in above tab under **Protocol**.
```

> 5. Configure the TCP/IP port to 1433 for all required IP addresses if the `Listen All` is set to `No`. Otherwise, set the TCP Port in IPAll.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
5. Configure the TCP/IP port to 1433 for all required IP addresses if the **Listen All** is set to **No**. Otherwise, set the TCP Port in IPAll.
```

Reviewer 2: @Niharikadutta since these are UI elements and settings to look out for, it makes sense to highlight them

>     ![SQL server TCP/IP port](./media/connect-external-sources/SQLServerTCPIIPPort.png)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    ![SQL Server TCP/IP port](./media/connect-external-sources/SQLServerTCPIIPPort.png)
```

> ## Configure your .NET for Apache Spark application to connect to the SQL server instance

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Connect to SQL Server from your application
```

> 1. Use the Microsoft JDBC Driver for SQL server to provide database connectivity through your application (download from [this official website](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/sql/connect/jdbc/download-microsoft-jdbc-driver-for-sql-server?view=sql-server-ver15)).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Use the Microsoft JDBC Driver for SQL Server to provide database connectivity through your application (download from [this official website](https://docs.microsoft.com/sql/connect/jdbc/download-microsoft-jdbc-driver-for-sql-server?view=sql-server-ver15)).
```

> 1. You can use the Microsoft JDBC Driver for SQL server to provide database connectivity through your application (download from [this official website](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/sql/connect/jdbc/download-microsoft-jdbc-driver-for-sql-server?view=sql-server-ver15)).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Use the Microsoft JDBC Driver for SQL server to provide database connectivity through your application (download from [this official website](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/sql/connect/jdbc/download-microsoft-jdbc-driver-for-sql-server?view=sql-server-ver15)).
```
